---
layout: default
title: About Bjarte S. Karlsen
id: about
---
Hey I am Bjarte S. Karlsen and I am a geek in several aspects. Computers, programming, roleplaying and fantasy. I think that sums it up pretty well.

I am educated as a computer scientist from "NTNU":http://www.ntnu.no specializing in system development. 

Most of my professional experience has thus far been in web development with the LAMP stack. I have also coded some applications for the Apple iPhone. 

On my spare time I like to learn, read and play roleplaying games. When I read/listen to fiction I prefer fantasy and science fiction in that order.  Literature that is unrealistic and strange and that keeps my mind away from everyday things. When learning I like to read books about computer
languages, methodologies and new coding techniques to improve my style. I also have quite a healthy subscription list in my Google Reader and hang out at IRC and at twitter quite a lot. 

I play roleplaying games regulary every other tuesday. Currently I play DnD 4th edition and I like it quite a lot. I am also interrested in indie roleplaying games. I have quite a collection of roleplaying books, but I seldom get to use most of them :/ I also play boardgames, wargames and cardgames from time to time. 

In order to describe myself further i decided to write up two sets of tags. The tags in a set is not put there in any specific order and it is more a
'feeling' kind of tag then an absolute belief that something is good or bad. Some of these feelings are stronger then others but I will not go into
that here. 

h3. Possitive tags

mac, linux, ubuntu, debian, vim, cli, git, github, irc, scala, maven, ack, testing, rest, open source, iphone, cats, chilli, garlic, whisky

h3. Negative tags

microsoft windows, msie, microsoft office, ms word, gpl, dogs, seafood, mouse driven gui, drm, wmv, fixing hardware computer problems, fixing others microsoft windows problems
