---
layout: post
title: Brainstorming dekstop twitter client features
---
p(meta). 01 March 2009 - Kristiansand, Norway

There are several twitter clients out there, but I feel that noen of them really fills the needs I have with twitter. I currently just use the webpage mostly. Sometimes I use twitterfic and get new tweets through growl.

This post is a brainstorming in features for a desktop twitter client. 

* when fetching new tweets only process items that are not processed before. Does twitter support modified-since stuff so that it is possible to only fetch tweets after a given time?
* filter incomming tweets. Based upon regex in the tweet, author of the tweet
* block noisy buddies
* create presets for filters/blocks so that it is possible to tune the client for given contexts. Sometimes you do not want to see all types of  tweets
* retweeting support. and reply support with custom templates to do so.
* add urls to delicious support. automatically tag with #hashtags in tweet
* reply-to history. 
* set refresh rate
* lots of keyboard shortcuts. post new tweet, reply to active element, retweet active element, move to next/prev element, if reply see originating message. 
* ability to customize keyboard shortcuts in some way. ( I like vim, others like emacs..)
* show remaining requests allowed to twitter
* decouple GUI and engine so that is is possible to build several GUI's on top of the engine
* inspector view for currently selected tweet. To see profile, image etc. 
* process FriendsTimeline and predefined searches. 

"David Briccetti":http://briccetti.blogspot.com/ has experimented with a twitter client in scala and swing. Several of these features are in his client. 

If anybody know of a twitter library that has some or more of these features then please let me know. 
